Role Based Access Control
allows you to say, okay,
only allow this action if
this user is an admin or
if they're a collaborator, or
if they're this type of user.
And within Firestore you can actually
look up data within security rules and
then make a decision based upon that.
So, let's say that there was a new feature
that was added to the expenses and
they said hey, every expense has a budget
ID, which means that it is associated
with a specific budget and
multiple users can collaborate on budgets.
In that case, what we can do
is I have to always copy and
paste this cuz this is such a long string,
is we can go and get data.
And so let's say we wanted to
only allow matching on budgets,
budget ID, so you can only modify
a budget if you are a collaborator.
So allow read if is collaborator.
Well, one of the things you can do is you
can write a function called isCollaborator
and then we're gonna paste
in this really big string.
So this is a get method that says get
data at this path in the database.
Firestore requires you to have a fully
qualified path in order to get it.
So that includes what is referred
to as a path type in Firestore.
And then, getting the request that
resource.aut.uid using the syntax like
an interpolate that user, and
let's say it was referring to admins.
An admins document that listed out
all the users who were admins,
I could say is this user in admin?
And so
I can say if this user.role = admin,
then I know that they're an admin or
if their role is, I can actually say
role in admin or collaborator.
And this allows me to know whether
that person has a specific role.
And so without having to do any more
logic within your app yourself,
you can actually enforce it entire
base of roles within security roles.
So you look up that user do they have the
role because the security roles they're
allowed to look up data at any path.
And says yes, this admin exists,
yes, they have the role of admin,
I will allow this to occur.
And you can even using hierarchy
say within the budgets of this
budget ID it has specific collaborators.
So you can even scope each one's
role down to a specific budget.
So their role in one budget might
have a different role in another.
And so you'll see that a lot
in project based stuff.
So we're not going to get into these
because it's more of an advanced use case,
the code does exist in the final use case,
as you can see how it's written,
cuz I really wanna dive
into Cloud functions.